In this demonstration,
I want to go a little bit further with what we did in the first demo
with linking our local account to a Microsoft account.
We'll deal with some federation now, so why don't I open up Start,
come to Settings, go into Accounts, and I'm going to go to Email & app accounts.
For convenience with, say, the local mail app, you can add accounts to there.
You see that if we click Add an account we can bring in our Outlook.
com mail, that would be our own personal Microsoft mail if we have it.
If we want to use Exchange Online from Office 365, we can authenticate there.
We can do Google, Yahoo, or iCloud.
So this provides a nice way to add account support that's
stored locally on the computer and allows us to pipeline
those accounts into our mail client.
So I'm choosing to connect to Google here, and it says Connecting to a service.
This is federation in action.
Notice that Windows 10 is going back to Google now to
have me authenticate with them.
That makes sense,
because my source of authority for this account isn't on the computer,
but it's at Google.
So let me authenticate here.
Of course, I have to type the correct password.
And, once again, I'm a huge fan of two-step verification,
so I'll put in my Authy code.
This is what's called an OAuth permission screen.
If you get deeper into federation, you'll learn about OAuth.
The application is requesting access.
Windows wants to tap in,
so basically this creates the trust relationship between the identity store,
which is Gmail on one side and Windows on the other.
Windows wants to basically manage all of my Gmail info.
Do we want to allow Windows to do that?
Yes, I do.
Great, so now we're all done with that.
So that means we can open Cortana or search and open the mail app in Windows,
choose the account that we added, go to the Inbox,
and we're off and running.
So there's that.
Now, for Azure AD stuff,
if we're authenticating more deeply into Office 365 or Microsoft Azure,
what we'll want to do there is come down to Access work or school,
and then click Connect.
Again, the UI here, I'm not a big fan of it, it's kind of confusing.
We've got important options that are buried in dialog boxes,
but Microsoft didn't ask me for my opinion on that,
so moving on.
Now notice we have here just a straight ahead
connection using a work or school account,
where there's alternate actions down below,
Join this device to Azure Active Directory,
or join this device to a local active directory domain.
A common confusion point I've seen with administrators is,
where do you join a domain from within the Windows 10 Settings app.
It's buried, actually.
You have to go under Accounts, Access work or school,
Connect, and then it's right down here.
Very annoying.
I prefer the classic system Control Panel,
or even better, from PowerShell, the Add computer cmdlet.
But anyway,
let me see what happens here if I put in my Office 365 administrator account.
That account is, in fact, a native Azure Active Directory credential.
We have to put in our password obviously.
And then it says,
hold on while we register this device with your company and apply policy.
This may take a moment.
Note to self.
I need to make sure after I stop recording this demo that I
switch my two-factor authentication in Office 365 from SMS
to using an authenticator app.
Check the exercise files.
If you're interested, I have a link there.
The reason why SMS two-factor is looked down upon and discouraged,
is that it's too easy to compromise the cellular network,
and if you were to capture somebody's text message and get
their verification code and you knew a little bit more
about the user's environment, you could,
well, defeat their two-factor authentication and log on to a service as them.
So the best practice is to use an authenticator app.
Again, I use Authy, but there's plenty of other ones around.
It's prompting us to create a PIN.
Those PINs are pretty popular, aren't they?
I'll just make a simple one.
Oh, it looks like it has to be at least six characters long.
In that case, I'll make it essentially a passphrase using letters and symbols.
Okay, we'll click Next.
It's prompting me for my Microsoft account credentials here,
because this is a high security action I'm taking.
Alright, so now I have a work or school account added here.
And what benefit does that give us?
Well, if we open up Edge, for instance, and I go to portal.
office.
com, the Microsoft office portal,
we can have a much smoother sign-in experience because my Office 365
administrator account is already connected to Windows,
you see.
And away we go.
Here we are in the Office 365 Admin Center.
Lastly, you can take an additional step,
and if you are using Microsoft Azure and Windows Intune,
go to Connect, Join this device to Azure Active directory.
There we have to log on with an account that's
associated with the target directory.
I could, for instance, use that same Office 365 account,
authenticate with my password.
It prompts you, are you sure you want to join this organization?
And I'm going to click Join.
I'm actually not going to click Join,
I'm going to cancel here because it can be pretty invasive.
Depending upon how you set up your device policies and your Intune subscription,
it could require that we log onto the system using that credential,
which I don't want to do, and it can also make other management changes.
I don't remember how I set up Intune, to be perfectly honest with you.
Just in case you're boiling over with curiosity,
from the Office 365 Admin Center,
if you scroll down under the Admin Center's link,
you can click out to the Intune portal,
which used to take you to a separate honest-to-goodness portal,
but now it takes you into portal.
azure.
com, into the Microsoft Intune section, you see.
And so there we have it,
we're not going to get any further than just showing you this initial screen. Check the exercise files for some additional notes if you'd like them.